# Fleet v2 server

The HTTP API is described by the `openapi.yaml` according to [OpenAPI Specification](https://openapis.org). The base of the server (e.g., entity models) was generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project. This includes ALL the contents of the `server/fleetv2_http_api` directory EXCEPT for:

- `impl`,
- `controllers/security_controller.py` (originally created by the Generator).

These files are included in the `server/.openapi-generator-ignore`. This file also must include itself.

## Requirements

Python 3.10.12+

## Usage

### Configuration

The configuration file is located in `config` directory. The file contains the fields listed below.

**Check carefully the correct name of the database the server should connect to.**

- `logging` - contains the keys `console`and `file` for printing the logs into a console and a file, respectively. The `file` contains field `path` to set the (absolute or relative) path to the directory to store the logs. Both contain the following keys:
  - `level` - logging level as a string (`DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `CRITICAL`). Case-insensitive.
  - `use` - set to `True` to allow to print the logs, otherwise set to `False`.
- `database` - settings for the database associated with the server.
  - `server` - settings for the database server. If only `path` is provided under `server`, the database used will be an sqlite file specified by the path.
    - `username`
    - `password`
    - `location` - location of the database (e.g., `localhost`).
    - `port` - port number.
    - `database-name` - database name.
    - `path` - only use this parameter if an sqlite db is needed (no other fields can be used in `server` in that case, otherwise connection to postgresql will we attempted). The value should be a path to a database file (e.g., `/home/user/test.db`). The file will be created if it doesn't exist.
  - `cleanup` - contains the following keys:
    - `timing_in_seconds`
      - `retention_period`- number of seconds after which each message can be deleted after it has been posted to the server.
      - `cleanup_period` - number of seconds after which the cleanup process will be executed.
- `http_server`- contains the following keys:
  `base_uri`- base URI of the HTTP server (e.g., `http://localhost:8080`).
- `request_for_messages`
  - `timeout_in_seconds` - number of seconds after which the server will stop waiting for messages from the client and returns empty response.
- `security` field is further described in the section [Configuring oAuth2](#configuring-oauth2).

### Dependencies

Install python dependencies into an activated virtual environment:

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv && \
source .venv/bin/activate && \
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### Running the server

To run the server execute the following:

```bash
python3 -m server <path-to-config-file> [OPTIONS]
```

The server automatically connects to the PostgreSQL database using data from the config file. If you want to override these values, start the server with some of the following options:

| Option            | Short  | Description                                  |
| ----------------- | ------ | -------------------------------------------- |
| `--username`      | `-usr` | Username for the PostgreSQL database         |
| `--password`      | `-pwd` | Password for the PostgreSQL database         |
| `--location`      | `-l`   | Location of the database (e.g., `localhost`) |
| `--port`          | `-p`   | Port number (e.g., `5430`)                   |
| `--database-name` | `-db`  | Database name                                |

Note that these data should comply with the requirements specified in SQLAlchemy [documentation](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/core/engines.html#database-urls).

To visualize the API, open your browser here (the location and port may vary according to the script parameters or the values in `config/config.json`):

```
http://localhost:8080/v2/protocol/ui
```

Your OpenAPI definition lives here:

```
http://localhost:8080/v2/protocol/openapi.json
```

### Adding a new admin to the database

To generate a new api_key (passed as a query parameter "api_key") run the following:

```bash
python scripts/new_admin.py <new-admin-name> <path-to-config-file> [OPTIONS]
```

The script automatically connects to the PostgreSQL database using the config file. To override any of those values, run the script with some of the following options:

| Option            | Short  | Description                                  |
| ----------------- | ------ | -------------------------------------------- |
| `--username`      | `-usr` | Username for the PostgreSQL database         |
| `--password`      | `-pwd` | Password for the PostgreSQL database         |
| `--location`      | `-l`   | Location of the database (e.g., `localhost`) |
| `--port`          | `-p`   | Port number (e.g., `5430`)                   |
| `--database-name` | `-db`  | Database name                                |

Note that these data should comply with the requirements specified in SQLAlchemy [documentation](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/core/engines.html#database-urls).

Working example for test database built from docker-compose (username and password can be found in the `config/config.json`).

```bash
python scripts/new_admin.py 'Bob' config/config.json
```

After running the script, the api_key is printed to the console:

```bash
New key for admin 'Bob':

<generated-api-key>
```

### Running with Docker

To run the server on a Docker container, run:

```bash
docker compose up --build -d
```

### Configuring oAuth2

To get Keycloak authentication working, all parameters in the security section of `config/config.json` need to be filled in. Most information is found in the Keycloak GUI.

```json
"security": {
        "keycloak_url": "https://keycloak.bringauto.com",
        "client_id": "",
        "client_secret_key": "",
        "scope": "",
        "realm": ""
    }
```

- keycloak_url: base URL of a working Keycloak instance
- client_id: id of client in Keycloak (Clients -> click on client representing HTTP API -> Settings -> Client ID)
- client_secret_key: secret key of client (Clients -> click on client representing HTTP API -> Credentials -> Client Secret)
- scope: checking of scopes is not yet implemented (must be `email` for now!)
- realm: realm in which the client belongs (seen on top of the left side panel in Keycloak GUI)

### Configuration

The server settings can be found in the `config/config.json`, including the database logging information and parameters for the database cleanup.

## Testing

Testing of a cloned repository requires two steps:

- install this package,
- run the tests (or their subset).

**Before installation, make sure you have the [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html#creating-virtual-environments) activated.** This is a necessary step to avoid conflicts with the system packages.

### Unit tests

In the root directory, run the following

```bash
python -m tests [-h] [PATH1] [PATH2] ...
```

Each PATH is specified relative to the `tests` directory. If no PATH is specified, all the tests will run. Otherwise

- when PATH is a directory, the script will run all tests in this directory (and subdirectories),
- when PATH is a Python file, the script will run all tests in the file.

The `-h` flag makes the script display tests' coverage in an HTML format, for example in your web browser.

The same applies to integration tests using containerized HTTP servers.

### Integration tests

To run the integration tests, run the following in the root directory:

```bash
python -m tests_integration [-h] [PATH1] [PATH2] ...
```

## Server re-generation

You must have the OpenAPI Generator installed (see [link](https://openapi-generator.tech/docs/installation/)). Before the server generation, the server must not be running.

To regenerate the server, run (in the `server` directory):

```bash
openapi-generator-cli generate -g python-flask -i ../openapi.yaml -o . -p=packageName=fleetv2_http_api
```

Below is an example of running the Generator with the port number being specified (the default is `8080`):

```bash
openapi-generator-cli generate -g python-flask -i ../openapi.yaml -o . -p=packageName=fleetv2_http_api,serverPort=<port-number>
```

If you have trouble with running the generator, visit [docs](https://openapi-generator.tech/docs/installation/).
